---
layout: post
title: Classes
permalink: cpp/classes
---
##01-Structs

_struct_ is a way to combine multiple fields to represent a composite data structure, which further lays the foundation for Object Oriented Programming. For example, we can store details related to a student in a struct consisting of his _age (int), first_name (string), last_name (string) and standard (int)_.

_struct_ can be represented as

```
struct NewType {
    type1 value1;
    type2 value2;
    .
    .
    .
    typeN valueN;
};

```

You have to create a struct, named _Student_, representing the student's details, as mentioned above, and store the data of a student.

**Input Format**

Input will consist of four lines.
The first line will contain an integer, representing _age_.
The second line will contain a string, consisting of lower-case Latin characters ('a'-'z'), representing the _first_name_ of a student.
The third line will contain another string, consisting of lower-case Latin characters ('a'-'z'), representing the _last_name_ of a student.
The fourth line will contain an integer, representing the _standard_ of student.

_Note:_ The number of characters in _first_name_ and _last_name_ will not exceed 50.

**Output Format**

Output will be of a single line, consisting of _age_, _first_name_, _last_name_ and _standard_, each separated by one white space.

_P.S.:_ I/O will be handled by HackerRank.

**Sample Input**

```
15
john
carmack
10

```

**Sample Output**

```
15 john carmack 10

```


<strong>Solution</strong>
<div class='solution'>{% highlight cpp %}
#include <cmath>
#include <cstdio>
#include <vector>
#include <iostream>
#include <algorithm>
using namespace std;
struct Student {
    int age;
    string first_name;
    string last_name;
	int standard;
};
int main() {
    Student st;
    cin >> st.age >> st.first_name >> st.last_name >> st.standard;
    cout << st.age << " " << st.first_name << " " << st.last_name << " " << st.standard;
    return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}
</div>
---
##02-Class

Class is the C++ equivalent of struct. Along with storing multiple data in a common block, it also assigns some functions (known as methods) to manipulate/access them. It serves as the building block of Object Oriented Programming.

It also has access specifiers, which restrict the access of member elements. The primarily used ones are the following:

*   _public:_ Public members (variables, methods) can be accessed from anywhere the code is visible.
*   _private:_ Private members can be accessed only by other member functions, and it can not be accessed outside of class.

Class can be represented in the form of

```
class ClassName {
    access_specifier1:
        type1 val1;
        type2 val2;
        ret_type1 method1(type_arg1 arg1, type_arg2 arg2,...)
        ...
    access_specifier2:
        type3 val3;
        type4 val4;
        ret_type2 method2(type_arg3 arg3, type_arg3 arg3,...)
        ...
};

```

It's a common practice to make all variables private, and set/get them using public methods. For example:

```
class SampleClass {
    private:
        int val;
    public:
        void set(int a) {
            val = a;
        }
        int get() {
            return val;
        }
};

```

* * *

We can store details related to a student in a class consisting of his _age (int), first_name (string), last_name (string) and standard (int)_.

You have to create a class, named _Student_, representing the student's details, as mentioned above, and store the data of a student. Create setter and getter functions for each element; that is, the class should at least have following functions:

*   _get_age_, _set_age_
*   _get_first_name_, _set_first_name_
*   _get_last_name_, _set_last_name_
*   _get_standard_, _set_standard_

Also, you have to create another method _to_string()_ which returns the string consisting of the above elements, separated by a comma(_,_). You can refer to _stringstream_ for this.

**Input Format**

Input will consist of four lines.
The first line will contain an integer, representing the _age_. The second line will contain a string, consisting of lower-case Latin characters ('a'-'z'), representing the _first_name_ of a student.
The third line will contain another string, consisting of lower-case Latin characters ('a'-'z'), representing the _last_name_ of a student.
The fourth line will contain an integer, representing the _standard_ of student.

_Note:_ The number of characters in _first_name_ and _last_name_ will not exceed 50.

**Output Format**

The code provided by HackerRank will use your class members to set and then get the elements of the _Student_ class.

**Sample Input**

```
15
john
carmack
10

```

**Sample Output**

```
15
carmack, john
10

15,john,carmack,10

```


<strong>Solution</strong>
<div class='solution'>{% highlight cpp %}
#include <iostream>
#include <sstream>
using namespace std;
class Student {
	private:
		int age;
		string first_name;
		string last_name;
		int standard;
	public:
		int get_age() {
			return age;
		}
		string get_first_name() {
			return first_name;
		}
		string get_last_name() {
			return last_name;
		}
		int get_standard() {
			return standard;
		}
		void set_age(int age) {
			this->age = age;
		}
		void set_first_name(string first_name) {
			this->first_name = first_name;
		}
		void set_last_name(string last_name) {
			this->last_name = last_name;
		}
		void set_standard(int standard) {
			this->standard = standard;
		}
		string to_string() {
			stringstream ss;
			char ch = ',';
			ss << get_age() << ch << get_first_name() << ch
			   	<< get_last_name() << ch << get_standard();
			return ss.str();
		}
};
int main() {
	int age, standard;
	string first_name, last_name;
	cin >> age >> first_name >> last_name >> standard;
	Student st;
	st.set_age(age);
	st.set_standard(standard);
	st.set_first_name(first_name);
	st.set_last_name(last_name);
	cout << st.get_age() << "\n";
	cout << st.get_last_name() << ", " << st.get_first_name() << "\n";
	cout << st.get_standard() << "\n";
	cout << "\n";
	cout << st.to_string();
	return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}
</div>
---
